---
title: Introduction to GraphQL
intro: Learn useful terminology and concepts for using the SensaAI GraphQL API.
redirect_from:
  - /v4/guides/intro-to-graphql
  - /graphql/guides/intro-to-graphql
versions:
  fpt: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
  ghae: '*'
topics:
  - API
---

# {{$doc.title}}

{{$doc.intro}}

---

## GraphQL terminology

The SensaAI GraphQL API represents an architectural and conceptual shift from the [ SensaAI REST API](/rest-api/about-the-rest-api). You will likely encounter some new terminology in the GraphQL API [reference docs](/graphql-api/reference).

## Schema

A schema defines a GraphQL API's type system. It describes the complete set of possible data (objects, fields, relationships, everything) that a client can access. Calls from the client are [validated](https://graphql.org/learn/validation/){:target="_blank"} and [executed](https://graphql.org/learn/execution/){:target="_blank"} against the schema. A client can find information about the schema via [introspection](#discovering-the-graphql-api). A schema resides on the GraphQL API server. For more information, see "[Discovering the GraphQL API](#discovering-the-graphql-api)."

## Field

A field is a unit of data you can retrieve from an object. As the [official GraphQL docs](https://graphql.org/learn/schema/){:target="_blank"} say:
"The GraphQL query language is basically about selecting fields on objects."

The [official spec](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Language.Fields){:target="_blank"} also says about fields:

> All GraphQL operations must specify their selections down to fields which return scalar values to ensure an unambiguously shaped response.

This means that if you try to return a field that is not a [scalar](https://graphql.org/learn/schema/#scalar-types){:target="_blank"}, schema validation will throw an error. You must add nested subfields until all fields return scalars.

## Argument

An argument is a set of key-value pairs attached to a specific field. Some fields require an argument. [Mutations](/graphql-api/making-calls#about-mutations){:target="_blank"} require an input object as an argument.

## Implementation

A GraphQL schema may use the term _implements_ to define how an object inherits from an interface.

Here's a contrived example of a schema that defines interface `X` and object `Y`:

```graphql
interface X {
  some_field: String!
  other_field: String!
}

type Y implements X {
  some_field: String!
  other_field: String!
  new_field: String!
}
```

This means object `Y` requires the same fields/arguments/return types that interface `X` does, while adding new fields specific to object `Y`. (The `!` means the field is required.)

## Connection

Connections let you query related objects as part of the same call. With connections, you can use a single GraphQL call where you would have to use multiple calls to a REST API. 

It's helpful to picture a graph: dots connected by lines. The dots are nodes, the lines are edges. A connection defines a relationship between nodes.

## Edge

Edges represent connections between nodes. When you query a connection, you traverse its edges to get to its nodes. Every `edges` field has a `node` field and a `cursor` field. Cursors are used for [pagination](https://graphql.org/learn/pagination/){:target="_blank"}.

## Node

_Node_ is a generic term for an object. You can look up a node directly, or you can access related nodes via a connection. If you specify a `node` that does not return a scalar, you must include subfields until all fields return scalars.

## Discovering the GraphQL API

GraphQL is [introspective](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/){:target="_blank"}. This means you can query a GraphQL schema for details about itself.

- Query `__schema` to list all types defined in the schema and get details about each:

  ```graphql
  query {
    __schema {
      types {
        name
        kind
        description
        fields {
          name
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

- Query `__type` to get details about any type:

  ```graphql
  query {
    __type(name: "StockRatingNode") {
      name
      kind
      description
      fields {
        name
      }
    }
  }
  ```
<!--
- You can also run an _introspection query_ of the schema via a `GET` request:

  ```shell
  curl -H "api-key: YOUR_API_KEY" https://sensaai.com/graphiql
  ```

  The results are in JSON, so we recommend pretty-printing them for easier reading and searching. You can use a command-line tool like [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) or pipe the results into `python -m json.tool` for this purpose.

  ::alert{type="info"}

  **Note**: The introspection query is probably the only `GET` request you'll run in GraphQL. If you're passing a body, the GraphQL request method is `POST`, whether it's a query or a mutation.

  ::
-->
  For more information about performing queries, see "[Making Calls](/graphql-api/making-calls)."

