---
title: Making calls with GraphQL
intro: 'Learn how to authenticate to the GraphQL API, then learn how to create and run queries and mutations.'
topics:
  - API
shortTitle: Form calls with GraphQL
---

# {{$doc.title}}

{{$doc.intro}}

---

## Authenticating with API access key

You can authenticate the GraphQL API using your personal API access key.

To optain your personal API access key, follow the steps in [Authentication](/getting-started/authentication). 

The data that you are requesting will dictate which scopes or permissions you will need.

If your token does not have the required scopes or permissions to access a resource, the API will return an error message that states the scopes or permissions your API access key needs.

## The GraphQL endpoint

The REST API has numerous endpoints; the public GraphQL API has a single endpoint:

<pre>  https://sensaai.com/graphiql</pre>

The endpoint remains constant no matter what operation you perform.

## Communicating with GraphQL

Because GraphQL operations consist of multiline JSON, SensaAI recommends using the [Explorer](/graphql-api/explorer) to make GraphQL calls. You can also use `curl` or any other HTTP-speaking library.

In REST, HTTP verbs determine the operation performed. In GraphQL, you'll provide a JSON-encoded body whether you're performing a query or a mutation, so the HTTP verb is `POST`. The exception is an [introspection query](/graphql-api/introduction-to-graphql#discovering-the-graphql-api){:target="_blank"}, which is a simple `GET` to the endpoint. 

To query GraphQL in a `curl` command, make a `POST` request with a JSON payload. The payload must contain a string called `query`:

```shell
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "api-key: YOUR_API_KEY" -X POST -d \
'{
  "query": "query { \
    profile { \
      email \
      firstName \
      lastName \
      phoneNumber \
    } \
  }"
}' https://sensaai.com/graphiql/
```

::alert{type="info"}
**Note**: The string value of `"query"` must escape newline characters or the schema will not parse it correctly. For the `POST` body, use outer double quotes and escaped inner double quotes.
::

### About query and mutation operations

The two types of allowed operations in SensaAI's GraphQL API are _queries_ and _mutations_. Comparing GraphQL to REST, queries operate like `GET` requests, while mutations operate like `POST`/`PATCH`/`DELETE`. The [mutation name](https://sensaai.com/graphql_api_reference/#group-Operations-Mutations){:target="_blank"} determines which modification is executed.

Queries and mutations share similar forms, with some important differences.

### About queries

GraphQL queries return only the data you specify. To form a query, you must specify [fields within fields](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Language.Fields){:target="_blank"} (also known as _nested subfields_) until you return only scalars.

Queries are structured like this:

<pre>query {
  JSON-OBJECT-TO-RETURN
}</pre>

In the [queries](https://sensaai.com/graphql_api_reference/#group-Operations-Queries){:target="_blank"} reference, the listed _fields_ are what will be contained in the reponse object.

For a real-world example, see "[Example query](#example-query)."

### About mutations

To form a mutation, you must specify three things:

1. _Mutation name_. The type of modification you want to perform.
1. _Input object_. The data you want to send to the server, composed of _input fields_. Pass it as an argument to the mutation name.
1. _Payload object_. The data you want to return from the server, composed of _return fields_. Pass it as the body of the mutation name.

Mutations are structured like this:

<pre>mutation {
  MUTATION-NAME(input: {MUTATION-NAME-INPUT!}) {
    MUTATION-NAME-PAYLOAD
  }
}</pre>

The input object in this example is `MutationNameInput`, and the payload object is `MutationNamePayload`.

In the [mutations](https://sensaai.com/graphql_api_reference/#group-Operations-Mutations){:target="_blank"} reference, the listed _input fields_ are what you pass as the input object. The listed _return fields_ are what you pass as the payload object.

For a real-world example, see "[Example mutation](#example-mutation)."

## Working with variables

[Variables](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#variables){:target="_blank"} can make queries more dynamic and powerful, and they can reduce complexity when passing mutation input objects.

::alert{type="info"}
**Note**: If you're using the Explorer, make sure to enter variables in the separate [Query Variables pane](/graphql-api/explorer#using-the-variable-pane){:target="_blank"}, and do not include the word `variables` before the JSON object.
::

Here's an example query with a single variable:

```graphql
query($number_of_stocks: Int) {
  stockRatings(first: $number_of_stocks
  ) {
    edges {
      node {
        date
        totalRating
        stock {
          id
          name
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
variables {
  "number_of_stocks": 10
}
```

There are three steps to using variables:

1. **Define the variable outside the operation in a `variables` object:**
   ```graphql
   variables {
      "number_of_stocks": 10
   }
   ```

   The object must be valid JSON. This example shows a simple `Int` variable type, but it's possible to define more complex variable types, such as input objects. You can also define multiple variables here.

1. **Pass the variable to the operation as an argument:**

   ```graphql
   query($number_of_stocks: Int) {
   ```
   The argument is a key-value pair, where the key is the _name_ starting with `$` (e.g., `$number_of_stocks`), and the value is the _type_ (e.g., `Int`). Add a `!` to indicate whether the type is required. If you've defined multiple variables, include them here as multiple arguments.

1. **Use the variable within the operation:**

   ```graphql
    stockRatings(first: $number_of_stocks
   ```
   In this example, we substitute the variable for the number of stocks to retrieve. We specify a type in step 2 because GraphQL enforces strong typing.

This process makes the query argument dynamic. We can now simply change the value in the `variables` object and keep the rest of the query the same.

Using variables as arguments lets you dynamically update values in the `variables` object without changing the query.

## Example query

Let's walk through the query from above with some more inputs and put this information in further context.

The query looks up the `stockRatings` in the database, finds the 20 highest rated stocks based on total_rating on the 1 June 2020:

```graphql
query {
  stockRatings(first: 20, orderBy: "-total_rating", date: "2020-06-01") {
    edges {
      node {
        stock {
          name
          sector
          industry
        }
        date
        totalRating
        growthRating
        returnRating
        riskRating
        valuationRating
        technicalRating
      }
    }
  }issues
}
```

Looking at the composition line by line:

- `query {`

  Because we want to read data from the server, not modify it, `query` is the root operation. (If you don't specify an operation, `query` is also the default.)

- `stockRatings(first: 20, orderBy: "-total_rating", date: "2020-06-01")`

  We call the `stockRatings` object and ask for it to return 20 stockRatings, ordered in descending order by total_rating on the 1 of June 2020.


- The [stockRatings docs](https://sensaai.com/graphql_api_reference/#query-stockRatings){:target="_blank"} tell us that the `stockRatings` object has the type `StockRatingNodeConnection`.

- `edges {`

  We know `stockRatings` is a connection because it has the `StockRatingNodeConnection` type. To retrieve data about individual stockRatings, we have to access the node via `edges`.

- `node {`

  Here we retrieve the node at the end of the edge. The [StockRatingNodeConnection docs](https://sensaai.com/graphql_api_reference/#definition-StockRatingNodeConnection){:target="_blank"} indicate the node at the end of the `StockRatingNodeConnection` type is a `StockRatingNode` object.

- Now that we know we're retrieving a `StockRatingNode` object, we can look at the [StockRatingNode docs](https://sensaai.com/graphql_api_reference/#definition-StockRatingNode){:target="_blank"} and specify the fields we want to return:

  ```graphql
    stock {
        name
        sector
        industry
    }
    date
    totalRating
    growthRating
    returnRating
    riskRating
    valuationRating
    technicalRating
  ```

  Here we specify the `stock`, `date`, and `ratings` fields of the `StockRatingNode` object.

  The `stock` field has the type [StockType](https://sensaai.com/graphql_api_reference/#definition-StockType){:target="_blank"} and we specify the subfields we would like to return in this case `name`, `sector` and  `industry`.


## Example mutation

Mutations often require information that you can only find out by performing a query first. This example shows two operations:

1. A query to get a watchlist ID.
1. A mutation to add some stocks to the watchlist.

```graphql
query getWatchlistsForUser {
  watchlistsForUser {
    id
    name
  }
}

mutation addToWatchlist {
  addToWatchlist(watchlistId: 69, stockTickers: ["MSFT", "MMM", "X"]) {
    success
    errors
  } 
}
```

::alert{type="info"}

Although you can include a query and a mutation in the same Explorer window if you give them names (`getWatchlistsForUser` and `addToWatchlist` in this example), the operations will be executed as separate calls to the GraphQL endpoint. It's not possible to perform a query at the same time as a mutation, or vice versa.

::

Let's walk through the example. The task sounds simple: add one or more stocks to a watchlist.

So how do we know to begin with a query? We don't, yet.

Because we want to modify data on the server (add stocks to a watchlist), we begin by searching the schema for a helpful mutation. The reference docs show the [`addToWatchlist`](https://sensaai.com/graphql_api_reference/#mutation-addToWatchlist){:target="_blank"} mutation, with this description: `Add one or more stocks to a watchlist.` Perfect!

The docs for the mutation list three input fields:

- `watchlistId` (`ID!`)
- `stockTickers` (`[String]`)
- `stockIds` (`[String]`)

While neither `stockTickers` or `stockIds` are strictly required we will need to include at least one of them or nothing will be added to the watchlist.

The `!`s indicate that `watchlistId` is a required field as we will need to specify what watchlist we wish to add the stock/s to.

This is why we start this example with a query: to get a list of watchlists for the user to then select the `ID` for the watchlist we would like to add the stock/s to.

Let's examine the query line by line:

- `query getWatchlistsForUser {`

  Here we're performing a query, and we name it `getWatchlistsForUser`. Note that naming a query is optional; we give it a name here so that we can include it in same Explorer window as the mutation.

  We retrieve watchlists for the user to react to by querying the `watchlistsForUser` array.

- `id`
- `name`

  This is where we retrieve the `id` and `name` to pass as the `watchlistId`.

When we run the query, we get an array of all watchlists for the user and we can then select the `id` corresponding to the `name` of the watchlist we would like to add stock's to.

::alert{type="info"}

**Note**: The `id` returned in the query is the value we'll pass as the `watchlistId` in the mutation. Neither the docs nor schema introspection will indicate this relationship; you'll need to understand the concepts behind the names to figure this out.

::

With the ID known, we can proceed with the mutation:

- `mutation addToWatchlist {`

  Here we're performing a mutation, and we name it `addToWatchlist`. As with queries, naming a mutation is optional; we give it a name here so we can include it in the same Explorer window as the query.

- `addToWatchlist(watchlistId: "69", stockTickers: ["MSFT", "MMM", "X"]) {`

  Let's examine this line:

  - `addToWatchlist` is the name of the mutation.
  - `(watchlistId: "69"` is the required `id` of the watchlist.
  - `stockTickers: ["MSFT", "MMM", "X"])` is a list of the tickers of the stocks we are adding to the watchlist.

  How do we know which value to use for the `stockTickers`? The [docs](https://sensaai.com/graphql_api_reference/#mutation-addToWatchlist){:target="_blank"} for the mutation field has the type `[String]` which is a list of one or more strings hence we provide the input as `["MSFT", "MMM", "X"]`.

- The rest of the call is composed of the payload object. This is where we specify the data we want the server to return after we've performed the mutation. These lines come from the [`addToWatchlist` docs type](https://sensaai.com/graphql_api_reference/#definition-AddToWatchlist){:target="_blank"}, which two possible return fields:

  - `"success"` `true`
  - `errors` ["abc123"]

  In this example, we return the two fields (`success` and `errors`).

When we run the mutation, this is the response:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "addToWatchlist": {
      "success": true,
      "errors": null
    }
  }
}
```

That's it! The stocks have now been added to the watchlist.

One final note: when you pass multiple fields in an input object, the syntax can get unwieldy. Moving the fields into a [variable](#working-with-variables) can help. Here's how you could rewrite the original mutation using a variable:

```graphql
mutation($watchlistId: ID!, $stockTickers: [String]) {
  addToWatchlist(watchlistId: $watchlistId, stockTickers: $stockTickers) {
   success
  errors
  } 
}
variables {
   "watchlistId": "69",
   "stockTickers": ["MSFT", "MMM", "X"]
}
```

## Further reading

There is a _lot_ more you can do when forming GraphQL calls. Here are some places to look next:

- [Pagination](https://graphql.org/learn/pagination/){:target="_blank"}
- [Fragments](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#fragments){:target="_blank"}
- [Inline fragments](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#inline-fragments){:target="_blank"}
- [Directives](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#directives){:target="_blank"}